[PR-23265][Custom app] Create public documentation (#349)
talkable/talkable-docs: source/email_marketing_and_automation/custom_app.rst

Custom App allows you to send Talkable data to a desired destination such as your site, ESP, CDP.
Talkable will send a request with data to the Custom App URL for each customer's event specified in the Custom App settings.

Set Up
------

> 1. Navigate into the App store:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the App store:
```

  .. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/app_store_step_1.png
    :alt: App store step 1

>   .. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/app_store_step_2.png
>     :alt: App store step 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/app_store_step_2.png
     :alt: App store step 2
```

> 2. Choose an `Custom app` and clicking “Install”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Choose a `Custom app` and clicking “Install”
```

.. code-block:: ruby

   require 'base64'
   require 'openssl'
   require 'active_support/security_utils'

   WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY = 'my_webhook_secret'

   def verify_webhook(data, header_signature)
     calculated_signature = Base64.strict_encode64(OpenSSL::HMAC.hexdigest('sha256', WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY, data))
     ActiveSupport::SecurityUtils.secure_compare(calculated_signature, header_signature)
   end

*JavaScript:*

.. code-block:: javascript

   const crypto = require('crypto');

   const WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY = 'my_webhook_secret';

   function verifyWebhook(data, headerSignature) {
     // Calculate HMAC
     const calculatedSignature = btoa(crypto
       .createHmac('sha256', WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY)
       .update(data)
       .digest('hex')
     );

     return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
       Buffer.from(calculatedSignature, 'base64'),
       Buffer.from(headerSignature, 'base64')
     );
   }

Available actions
-----------------

Each action allows custom attributes to be included. You can see allowed interpolation variables by clicking `Show available variables` button:

.. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/variables.png

>    :alt: Send same payload

Reviewer: This should either say "Send **sample** payload" or "Variables" (as it refers to image other than `send_sample_payload.png`)

Referral Create
...............

Triggers when a new referral is created, sending detailed information about the referral.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "campaign_id": "142",
     "referral_status": "in_progress",
     "advocate_email": "advocate@example.com",
     "friend_email": "friend@example.com"
   }

Sync signups
............

This action automatically synchronizes all people whenever they sign up no matter if person opted in by email or phone number.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "email": "person-9eb230f8d189fca9@talkable-sample.com",
     "email_optin": "true",
     "phone_number": "+12025551111",
     "phone_optin": "true"
   }

> Sync email opt ins

Reviewer: You don’t have a space in `signups` above but have in `opt ins`.
Please use either signups / optins or sign ups / opt ins consistently.

     "email_optin": "true"
   }

Sync phone opt ins
..................

This action automatically synchronizes all people whenever they sign up and opt in for text messages. Signups without phone opt in are not triggered by this action.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "person-fa8e880e25bd47b3@talkable-sample.com",
     "phone_number": "+12025551111"
   }

Sync loyalty actions
....................

This action automatically synchronizes all loyalty members whenever they make a loyalty action.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "loyalty@talkable.com"
   }

Sync loyalty tier transitions
.............................

This action automatically synchronizes all loyalty members whenever their tier is changed.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "loyalty@talkable.com"
   }

Unsubscribe
...........

Whenever customers unsubscribe from Talkable emails they will also become unsubscribed in your ESP.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "person-591542c54ff21a49@talkable-sample.com"
   }

> Offer Share

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Offer share
```

...........

Whenever a person shares the offer, the share information will be sent to your ESP.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "person-591542c54ff21a49@talkable-sample.com"
   }

Send reward
...........

This action sends the reward information to your ESP.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "description": "$5",
     "amount": "5.0",
     "coupon_code": "FR_NEW_5_OFF",
     "reason": "click",
     "site_id": "1"
   }

Create coupon
.............

When the quantity of available coupons drops below a Talkable threshold this action sends you information.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "coupon_code": "SAMPLE-COUPON-CODE",
     "coupon_discount_amount": "0.0"
   }

Event
.....

Triggers when a new event or purchase is created.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "type": "Event",
     "created_at": "2024-11-25 00:00:00 -0800",
     "event_category": "public_event",
     "event_number": "183247241",
     "subtotal": "100.0",
     "currency_iso_code": "USD",
     "email": "advocate@example.com"
   }

> Referral Status Change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Referral status change
```

.. code-block:: javascript

>   const crypto = require('crypto');
> 
>   const WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY = 'my_webhook_secret';
> 
>   function verifyWebhook(data, headerSignature) {
>     // Calculate HMAC
>     const calculatedSignature = btoa(crypto
>       .createHmac('sha256', WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY)
>       .update(data)
>       .digest('hex')
>     );
> 
>     return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
>       Buffer.from(calculatedSignature, 'base64'),
>       Buffer.from(headerSignature, 'base64')
>     );
>   }

Reviewer: I’m following indentation guidelines from RST documentation.
https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/index.html

```suggestion
   const crypto = require('crypto');
 
   const WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY = 'my_webhook_secret';
 
   function verifyWebhook(data, headerSignature) {
     // Calculate HMAC
     const calculatedSignature = btoa(crypto
       .createHmac('sha256', WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY)
       .update(data)
       .digest('hex')
     );
 
     return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
       Buffer.from(calculatedSignature, 'base64'),
       Buffer.from(headerSignature, 'base64')
     );
   }
```

Available actions
-----------------

Each action allows custom attributes to be included. You can see allowed interpolation variables by clicking `Show available variables` button:

.. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/variables.png

>   :alt: Send same payload

Reviewer: One issue here is indentation, but the ALT text is not clear to me — what does "Send some payload" mean here? Should it say variables?
```suggestion
   :alt: Variables
```

Referral Create
...............

> When referral has been created this action sends you information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Triggers when a new referral is created, sending detailed information about the referral.
```

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "campaign_id": "142",
>     "referral_status": "in_progress",
>     "advocate_email": "advocate@example.com",
>     "friend_email": "friend@example.com"
>   }

Reviewer: I’m following indentation guidelines from RST documentation.
https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/index.html

```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "campaign_id": "142",
     "referral_status": "in_progress",
     "advocate_email": "advocate@example.com",
     "friend_email": "friend@example.com"
   }
```

Sync signups
............

This action automatically synchronizes all people whenever they sign up no matter if person opted in by email or phone number.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "email": "person-9eb230f8d189fca9@talkable-sample.com",
>     "email_optin": "true",
>     "phone_number": "+12025551111",
>     "phone_optin": "true"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "email": "person-9eb230f8d189fca9@talkable-sample.com",
     "email_optin": "true",
     "phone_number": "+12025551111",
     "phone_optin": "true"
   }
```

Sync email opt ins
..................

This action automatically synchronizes all people whenever they sign up and opt in. Email signups without opt in are not triggered by this action.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "email": "person-40728a5b940e3247@talkable-sample.com",
>     "email_optin": "true"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "person-40728a5b940e3247@talkable-sample.com",
     "email_optin": "true"
   }
```

Sync phone opt ins
..................

This action automatically synchronizes all people whenever they sign up and opt in for text messages. Signups without phone opt in are not triggered by this action.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "email": "person-fa8e880e25bd47b3@talkable-sample.com",
>     "phone_number": "+12025551111"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "person-fa8e880e25bd47b3@talkable-sample.com",
     "phone_number": "+12025551111"
   }
```

Sync loyalty actions
....................

This action automatically synchronizes all loyalty members whenever they make a loyalty action.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "email": "loyalty@talkable.com"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "loyalty@talkable.com"
   }
```

Sync loyalty tier transitions
.............................

This action automatically synchronizes all loyalty members whenever their tier is changed.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "email": "loyalty@talkable.com"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "loyalty@talkable.com"
   }
```

Unsubscribe
...........

Whenever customers unsubscribe from Talkable emails they will also become unsubscribed in your ESP.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "email": "person-591542c54ff21a49@talkable-sample.com"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "person-591542c54ff21a49@talkable-sample.com"
   }
```

Offer Share
...........

> Whenever a person shares the offer the share information will be sent to your ESP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever a person shares the offer, the share information will be sent to your ESP.
```

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "email": "person-591542c54ff21a49@talkable-sample.com"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "email": "person-591542c54ff21a49@talkable-sample.com"
   }
```

Send reward
...........

This action sends the reward information to your ESP.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "description": "$5",
>     "amount": "5.0",
>     "coupon_code": "FR_NEW_5_OFF",
>     "reason": "click",
>     "site_id": "1"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "description": "$5",
     "amount": "5.0",
     "coupon_code": "FR_NEW_5_OFF",
     "reason": "click",
     "site_id": "1"
   }
```

Create coupon
.............

When the quantity of available coupons drops below a Talkable threshold this action sends you information.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "coupon_code": "SAMPLE-COUPON-CODE",
>     "coupon_discount_amount": "0.0"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "coupon_code": "SAMPLE-COUPON-CODE",
     "coupon_discount_amount": "0.0"
   }
```

Event
.....

> When Event or Purchase have been registered this actions sends you information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Triggers when a new event or purchase is created.
```

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "type": "Event",
>     "created_at": "2024-11-25 00:00:00 -0800",
>     "event_category": "public_event",
>     "event_number": "183247241",
>     "subtotal": "100.0",
>     "currency_iso_code": "USD",
>     "email": "advocate@example.com"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "type": "Event",
     "created_at": "2024-11-25 00:00:00 -0800",
     "event_category": "public_event",
     "event_number": "183247241",
     "subtotal": "100.0",
     "currency_iso_code": "USD",
     "email": "advocate@example.com"
   }
```

Referral Status Change
......................

> When referral has been created this action sends you information.

Reviewer: This text seems to be copy-paste from "Referral Create" without a proper change.
```suggestion
This action is triggered when referral’s status changes.
```

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "site_id": "1",
>     "campaign_id": "142",
>     "referral_status": "in_progress",
>     "advocate_email": "advocate@example.com",
>     "friend_email": "friend@example.com"
>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "site_id": "1",
     "campaign_id": "142",
     "referral_status": "in_progress",
     "advocate_email": "advocate@example.com",
     "friend_email": "friend@example.com"
   }
```

Click reward verification
.........................

This action sends information about a Friend when they attempt claiming a reward. The response from the Endpoint URL is checked to decide if a reward should be given. To reject unverified rewards, use `click_reward_verified` liquid variable in the incentive criteria.

**Note:** By default, the verification request times out at 1 second, and in that case the reward is considered verified.

*Default payload:*

.. code-block:: JSON

>   {
>     "email": "friend@example.com",
>     "site_id": "1"
>   }
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {
     "email": "friend@example.com",
     "site_id": "1"
   }
```

Testing
-------

Testing Custom app actions can be accomplished with the help of Webhook Tester, an external service that tests your post-receive messages.

1. Visit `Webhook Tester <https://webhook.site/>`_ and click **Copy** to copy the URL you are given.

> 2. Open your Custom app .

Reviewer: Redundant space.
```suggestion
2. Open your Custom app.
```

3. Paste your Webhook Tester URL into **Endpoint URL** field and save.
4. Click **Send sample payload** near the action you want to test.

>   .. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/send_same_payload.png
>       :alt: Send same payload

Reviewer: > [!IMPORTANT]  
> Please don’t forget to rename the image file.

* Fix indentation.
* Fix file name, "same payload" is a typo and does not make sense in this context.

```suggestion
  .. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/send_sample_payload.png
     :alt: Send sample payload
```

5. After you finish the implementation on your site **change Webhook Tester URL
   to the live URL** in your Custom app.
6. Click **Send sample payload** to test action with Live URL.

Whitelisting Talkable IPs
-------------------------

In case your servers are behind firewall, you may need to whitelist Talkable IP
addresses so webhooks can be delivered. Pass list of these addresses to your network administrator:

.. hlist::

>   :columns: 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :columns: 4
```

>   .. include:: /partials/talkable_ip_list.rst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. include:: /partials/talkable_ip_list.rst
```

.. code-block:: javascript

  const crypto = require('crypto');

  const WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY = 'my_webhook_secret';

  function verifyWebhook(data, headerSignature) {
    // Calculate HMAC
    const calculatedSignature = btoa(crypto
      .createHmac('sha256', WEBHOOK_SECRET_KEY)
      .update(data)
      .digest('hex')
    );

    return crypto.timingSafeEqual(
      Buffer.from(calculatedSignature, 'base64'),
      Buffer.from(headerSignature, 'base64')
    );
  }

Available actions

> -----------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-----------------

```

Each action allows custom attributes to be included. You can see allowed interpolation variables by clicking `Show available variables` button:

.. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/variables.png
  :alt: Send same payload

Referral Create

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: Please use syntax from the README for headers and subheaders:
https://github.com/talkable/talkable-docs?tab=readme-ov-file#cross-referencing

Please also leave an empty line after all headers.

4. Click **Send sample payload** near the action you want to test.

  .. image:: /_static/img/email_marketing_and_automation/send_same_payload.png
      :alt: Send same payload

5. After you finish the implementation on your site **change Webhook Tester URL
   to the live URL** in your Custom app.
6. Click **Send sample payload** to test action with Live URL.

Whitelisting Talkable IPs
-------------------------

In case your servers are behind firewall, you may need to whitelist Talkable IP
addresses so webhooks can be delivered. Pass list of these addresses to your network administrator:

.. hlist::
   :columns: 4

   * 100.26.94.244
   * 18.207.91.200
   * 18.210.165.17
   * 18.232.203.127
   * 18.233.48.151
   * 184.73.206.68
   * 23.21.155.129
   * 3.222.226.72
   * 34.197.54.191
   * 34.226.253.236
   * 34.231.104.179
   * 34.232.247.192
   * 35.169.186.170
   * 35.171.77.58
   * 35.173.87.187
   * 44.217.136.252
   * 44.219.211.174
   * 50.16.143.102
   * 50.17.244.178
   * 52.204.148.18
   * 52.22.0.55
   * 52.6.41.1
   * 52.7.94.243
   * 54.164.128.44
   * 54.208.14.192
   * 54.86.208.153
   * 54.86.241.218

>    * 54.91.51.228

Reviewer: Please do not duplicate IPs in documentation and link to existing list instead.
Either that or move list to partial / separate page.
Either way there should only be a single place we’re updating.
https://github.com/talkable/talkable-docs/blob/f8e68648654d7fbf807684ae1944592aa169f38d/source/web_hooks.rst#whitelisting-talkable-ips
